new:payment policies dev guide (#2727)
vtexdocs/dev-portal-content: docs/guides/Payments/payments-configuration-guides/using-payment-policies.md

---
title: "Using payment policies"
slug: "using-payment-policies"
hidden: false
createdAt: "2026-06-08T00:00:00.000Z"
updatedAt: "2026-06-08T00:00:00.000Z"
excerpt: "Create and test payment policies to control payment method eligibility by item collection and delivery state."
---

Payment policies allow merchants to control which payment methods are available in Checkout based on purchase context, such as item collection and shipping state. They complement payment conditions: conditions define how a payment method is configured, including installments, interest, and affiliation, while policies define whether a configured payment method is displayed for each cart item.

> ⚠️ This feature is in closed beta, meaning only specific customers can access it now. If you want to implement it in the future, please contact [our Support](https://support.vtex.com/hc/en-us/)

> > ℹ️ VTEX is developing a Payment Policies version with support for Agents/LLM models and additional purchase context variables. In the current version, use the API and the `collectionIds` and `shippingState` variables described in this guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> ℹ️ VTEX is developing a Payment Policies version with support for agents or LLM models and additional purchase context variables. In the current version, use the API and the `collectionIds` and `shippingState` variables described in this guide.
```

      ]
    },
    "enabled": true,
    "priority": 90,
    "action": "Exclude",
    "paymentSystems": [2]
  }'
```

Rule fields:

| Field | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `name` | String | Rule name used to identify the policy. |
| `expression` | Object | JSONLogic condition. The rule fires when this expression evaluates to `true`. |
| `enabled` | Boolean | Whether the rule is active. Disabled rules are ignored. |
| `priority` | Integer | Rule priority from `0` to `999`. Lower values have higher precedence. |
| `action` | String | `Exclude` or `Include`. |
| `paymentSystems` | Array of integers | Payment system IDs affected by the rule. |

The `expression` field is validated when the rule is saved. Each expression can have up to 500 operators.

## Step 3 - Manage policy rules

Use the following endpoints to manage policy rules:

| Operation | Endpoint |
| --- | --- |
| Create rule | `POST {baseUrl}/policy-rules?an={accountName}` |
| List rules | `GET {baseUrl}/policy-rules?an={accountName}` |
| Get rule by ID | `GET {baseUrl}/policy-rules/{id}?an={accountName}` |
| Replace rule | `PUT {baseUrl}/policy-rules/{id}?an={accountName}` |

> | Partially update rule | `PATCH {baseUrl}/policy-rules/{id}?an={accountName}` |

Reviewer 2: `PATCH /policy-rules/{id}` não existe no PCS (só `PUT`). Remover da tabela e substituir disable por `PUT` com body completo

Author: Corrigido.

| Delete rule | `DELETE {baseUrl}/policy-rules/{id}?an={accountName}` |

To disable a rule without deleting it, send a partial update:

```bash
curl --request PATCH \
  --url "https://pcs.vtexcommercestable.com.br/api/payment-configuration-service/policy-rules/{id}?an={accountName}" \
  --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
  --header "X-VTEX-API-AppKey: {appKey}" \
  --header "X-VTEX-API-AppToken: {appToken}" \
  --data '{
    "enabled": false
  }'
```

## Step 4 - Test the policy with the search endpoint

Use the search endpoint to validate policy behavior before testing the full Checkout flow. The request receives item context and returns payment system assignments by item.

```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url "https://{accountName}.vtexpayments.com.br/api/pvt/payment-systems/search?an={accountName}" \
  --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
  --header "X-VTEX-API-AppKey: {appKey}" \
  --header "X-VTEX-API-AppToken: {appToken}" \
  --data '{
    "items": [
      {
        "id": "sku-01",
        "collectionIds": [139],
        "shippingData": {
          "state": "NY"
        }
      }
    ]
  }'
```

Expected response pattern:

> ```json

Reviewer 2: Corrigir `paymentSystemAssignments` para mapa { "sku-01": [1, 4] }, não array de `{ paymentSystem, itemIds }`

Sugestão:

```
{
  "paymentSystemAssignments": {
    "sku-01": [1, 4]
  },
  "paymentSystemDefinitions": [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "name": "Debit Card",
      "groupName": "debitCard"
    },
    {
      "id": 4,
      "name": "Mastercard",
      "groupName": "creditCard"
    }
  ]
}
```

Author: Corrigido.

{
  "paymentSystemAssignments": [
    {
      "paymentSystem": 1,
      "itemIds": ["sku-01"]
    },
    {
      "paymentSystem": 4,
      "itemIds": ["sku-01"]
    }
  ]
}
```

In this example, payment system `2` must not appear in `paymentSystemAssignments` for `sku-01`, because the item belongs to collection `139` and the delivery state is `NY`.

## Step 5 - Validate the policy in Checkout

After validating the rule with the search endpoint, test the behavior in Checkout:

> 1. Create a cart with `POST /api/checkout/pub/orderForm`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a cart with [Get current or create a new cart](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/api-reference/checkout-api#get-/api/checkout/pub/orderForm) endpoint.
```

- API credentials with the required [permissions](https://help.vtex.com/docs/tutorials/license-manager-resources):
  - `ManageStore` to create, update, disable, and delete policy rules.
  - `ViewPayments` to list policy rules and test payment system availability.
- Numeric IDs of the payment systems you want to manage. You can retrieve them with `GET https://{accountName}.vtexpayments.com.br/api/pvt/payment-systems`.
- Catalog collections created and associated with the SKUs that should be affected by the policies.

## How payment policies work

Each policy rule has a JSONLogic expression, an action, a priority, and a list of payment systems. When Checkout evaluates the cart, the rule is evaluated for each item separately.

Available context variables:

| Variable | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `collectionIds` | Array of integers | Collections that the item belongs to. |
| `shippingState` | String | Delivery state code, such as `NY` or `CA`. |

Available actions:

| Action | Behavior |
| --- | --- |
| `Exclude` | Removes the listed payment systems from matching items. |
| `Include` | Restricts matching items to the listed payment systems. |

> Rules are evaluated in priority order. Lower `priority` values have higher precedence. If an `Include` rule and an `Exclude` rule have the same priority for the same payment system, `Exclude` takes precedence.

Reviewer 2: Sugestão:

"Rules run in ascending priority order (lower first). Exclude removes payment systems from the allowed set; Include only filters what is left and cannot restore systems removed by a prior Exclude. When both actions match the same item, exclusion therefore prevails over inclusion. Use different priority values for predictable ordering."

Author: Boa! Corrigido.

Use the following endpoints to manage policy rules:

| Operation | Endpoint |
| --- | --- |
| Create rule | `POST {baseUrl}/policy-rules?an={accountName}` |
| List rules | `GET {baseUrl}/policy-rules?an={accountName}` |
| Get rule by ID | `GET {baseUrl}/policy-rules/{id}?an={accountName}` |
| Replace rule | `PUT {baseUrl}/policy-rules/{id}?an={accountName}` |
| Delete rule | `DELETE {baseUrl}/policy-rules/{id}?an={accountName}` |

To update a rule without deleting it, replace the existing rule with a new version:

```bash
curl --request PUT \
  --url "https://pcs.vtexcommercestable.com.br/api/payment-configuration-service/policy-rules/{id}?an={accountName}" \
  --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
  --header "X-VTEX-API-AppKey: {appKey}" \
  --header "X-VTEX-API-AppToken: {appToken}" \
  --data '{
    "name": "Exclude payment system 5 for collection 139 in NY",
    "expression": {
      "and": [
        { "in": [139, { "var": "collectionIds" }] },
        { "==": [{ "var": "shippingState" }, "NY"] }
      ]
    },
    "enabled": true,
    "priority": 90,
    "action": "Exclude",
    "paymentSystems": [5]
  }'
```

## Step 4 - Test the policy with the search endpoint

> Use the search endpoint to validate policy behavior before testing the full Checkout flow. The request receives item context and returns payment system assignments by item.

Reviewer 2: Sugestão, para os campos opcionais:

"Use the search endpoint to validate policy behavior before testing the full Checkout flow. Send the cart line items (and optionally salesChannel and paymentSystemIds) in the request body; the response returns, for each item ID, the payment system IDs still allowed after active policy rules are applied (paymentSystemAssignments), plus the corresponding payment system metadata (paymentSystemDefinitions)."

Author: Corrigido.
